---
title: Big Data Use Cases Survey
weight: 4
draft: false
description: >
  Week 2: Big Data Use Cases Survey
---

## Overview of NIST Big Data Public Working Group (NBD-PWG) Process and Results (Slide Deck 1)

[Slides](https://drive.google.com/file/d/12F779a9bwsxUaQ66cVZj5AzTpLLdMEUw/view?usp=sharing)

### Use Case 1-1 Introduction to NIST Big Data Public Working

The focus of the (NBD-PWG) is to form a community of interest from industry, academia, and government, with the goal of developing a consensus definition, taxonomies, secure reference architectures, and technology roadmap. The aim is to create vendor-neutral, technology and infrastructure agnostic deliverables to enable big data stakeholders to pick-and-choose best analytics tools for their processing and visualization requirements on the most suitable computing platforms and clusters while allowing value-added from big data service providers and flow of data between the stakeholders in a cohesive and secure manner.

Introduction (13:02)

{{< youtube "3oKdmuH0N3k" >}}

### Use Case 1-2 Definitions and Taxonomies Subgroup

The focus is to gain a better understanding of the principles of Big Data. It is important to develop a consensus-based common language and vocabulary terms used in Big Data across stakeholders from industry, academia, and government. In addition, it is also critical to identify essential actors with roles and responsibility, and subdivide them into components and sub-components on how they interact/ relate with each other according to their similarities and differences.
For Definitions: Compile terms used from all stakeholders regarding the meaning of Big Data from various standard bodies, domain applications, and diversified operational environments. For Taxonomies: Identify key actors with their roles and responsibilities from all stakeholders, categorize them into components and subcomponents based on their similarities and differences. In particular data, Science and Big Data terms are discussed.

Taxonomies (7:42)

{{< youtube "7eOtuBV8udo" >}}

### Use Case 1-3 Reference Architecture Subgroup
 
The focus is to form a community of interest from industry, academia, and government, with the goal of developing a consensus-based approach to orchestrate vendor-neutral, technology and infrastructure agnostic for analytics tools and computing environments. The goal is to enable Big Data stakeholders to pick-and-choose technology-agnostic analytics tools for processing and visualization in any computing platform and cluster while allowing value-added from Big Data service providers and the flow of the data between the stakeholders in a cohesive and secure manner. Results include a reference architecture with well-defined components and linkage as well as several exemplars.

Architecture (10:05)

{{< youtube "h4ylW0vztDw" >}}

### Use Case 1-4 Security and Privacy Subgroup

The focus is to form a community of interest from industry, academia,
and government, with the goal of developing a consensus secure reference
architecture to handle security and privacy issues across all
stakeholders. This includes gaining an understanding of what standards
are available or under development, as well as identifies which key
organizations are working on these standards. The Top Ten Big Data
Security and Privacy Challenges from the CSA (Cloud Security Alliance)
BDWG are studied. Specialized use cases include Retail/Marketing, Modern
Day Consumerism, Nielsen Homescan, Web Traffic Analysis, Healthcare,
Health Information Exchange, Genetic Privacy, Pharma Clinical Trial Data
Sharing, Cyber-security, Government, Military and Education.

Security (9:51)

{{< youtube "dHrHk-GvruY" >}}

### Use Case 1-5 Technology Roadmap Subgroup


The focus is to form a community of interest from industry, academia,
and government, with the goal of developing a consensus vision with
recommendations on how Big Data should move forward by performing a good
gap analysis through the materials gathered from all other NBD
subgroups. This includes setting standardization and adoption priorities
through an understanding of what standards are available or under
development as part of the recommendations. Tasks are gathered input from
NBD subgroups and study the taxonomies for the actors' roles and
responsibility, use cases and requirements, and secure reference
architecture; gain an understanding of what standards are available or
under development for Big Data; perform a thorough gap analysis and
document the findings; identify what possible barriers may delay or
prevent the adoption of Big Data; and document vision and recommendations.


Technology (4:14)

{{< youtube "va0UCR5gMTA" >}}

### Use Case 1-6 Requirements and Use Case Subgroup


The focus is to form a community of interest from industry, academia,
and government, with the goal of developing a consensus list of Big Data
requirements across all stakeholders. This includes gathering and
understanding various use cases from diversified application
domains.Tasks are gather use case input from all stakeholders; derive
Big Data requirements from each use case; analyze/prioritize a list of
challenging general requirements that may delay or prevent adoption of
Big Data deployment; develop a set of general patterns capturing the
*essence* of use cases (not done yet) and work with Reference
Architecture to validate requirements and reference architecture by
explicitly implementing some patterns based on use cases. The progress
of gathering use cases (discussed in next two units) and requirements
systemization are discussed.

Requirements (27:28)

{{< youtube "f_vxmx3CmMU" >}}

### Use Case 1-7 Recent Updates of work of NIST Public Big Data Working Group

This video is an update of recent work in this area. The first slide of this short lesson discusses a new version of use case survey that had many improvements including tags to label key features (as discussed in slide deck 3) and merged in a significant set of security and privacy fields.  This came from the security and privacy working group described in lesson 4 of this slide deck. A link for this new use case form is 
https://bigdatawg.nist.gov/_uploadfiles/M0621_v2_7345181325.pdf
A recent December 2018 use case form for Astronomy’s Square Kilometer Array is at https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CxqCISK4v9LMMmGox-PG1bLeaRcbAI4cDIlmcoRqbDs/edit?usp=sharing This uses a simplification of the official new form. 

The second (last) slide in update gives some useful on latest work.
NIST’s latest work just published is at
https://bigdatawg.nist.gov/V3_output_docs.php 
Related activities are described at
http://hpc-abds.org/kaleidoscope/ 

{{< youtube "2PAC2bAAcIA" >}}

## Introduction to NIST Big Data Public Working Group (NBD-PWG) 51 Big Data Use Cases

[Slides](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1_m97KGvBu0Fkx47Fkp78_8m89ni2P8jK/view?usp=sharing)

### Use Case 2-1 Government Use Cases

This covers Census 2010 and 2000 - Title 13 Big Data; National Archives
and Records Administration Accession NARA, Search, Retrieve,
Preservation; Statistical Survey Response Improvement (Adaptive Design)
and Non-Traditional Data in Statistical Survey Response Improvement
(Adaptive Design).

Government Use Cases (17:43)

{{< youtube "e0ks_BuYUVM" >}}

### Use Case 2-2 Commercial Use Cases

This covers Cloud Eco-System, for Financial Industries (Banking,
Securities & Investments, Insurance) transacting business within the
United States; Mendeley - An International Network of Research; Netflix
Movie Service; Web Search; IaaS (/infrastructure as a Service) Big Data
Business Continuity & Disaster Recovery (BC/DR) Within A Cloud
Eco-System; Cargo Shipping; Materials Data for Manufacturing and
Simulation driven Materials Genomics.



#### Part 1

(9:31)

{{< youtube "8Z2Sk11PcPU" >}}


#### Part 2

(19:45)

{{< youtube "bUGxcmbuVaM" >}}

#### Part 3

(10:48)

{{< youtube "fTT66Y0Uoqo" >}}

### Use Case 2-3 Defense Use Cases

This covers Large Scale Geospatial Analysis and Visualization; Object
identification and tracking from Wide Area Large Format Imagery (WALF)
Imagery or Full Motion Video (FMV) - Persistent Surveillance and
Intelligence Data Processing and Analysis.

Defense Use Cases (15:43)

{{< youtube "FXFfE8zcco8" >}}

### Use Case 2-4 Healthcare and Life Science Use Cases

This covers Electronic Medical Record (EMR) Data; Pathology
Imaging/digital pathology; Computational Bioimaging; Genomic
Measurements; Comparative analysis for metagenomes and genomes;
Individualized Diabetes Management; Statistical Relational Artificial
Intelligence for Health Care; World Population Scale Epidemiological
Study; Social Contagion Modeling for Planning, Public Health and
Disaster Management and Biodiversity and LifeWatch.

Healthcare and Life Science Use Cases (30:11)

{{< youtube "uGeYrXENlpU" >}}

### Use Case 2-5 Deep Learning and Social Networks Use Cases

This covers Large-scale Deep Learning; Organizing large-scale,
unstructured collections of consumer photos; Truthy: Information
diffusion research from Twitter Data; Crowd Sourcing in the Humanities
as Source for Bigand Dynamic Data; CINET: Cyberinfrastructure for
Network (Graph) Science and Analytics and NIST Information Access
Division analytic technology performance measurement, evaluations, and
standards.

Deep Learning and Social Networks Use Cases (14:19)


{{< youtube "bdWyhT8bvE4" >}}

### Use Case 2-6 Research Ecosystem Use Cases

DataNet Federation Consortium DFC; The 'Discinnet process', metadata
-big data global experiment; Semantic Graph-search on Scientific
Chemical and Text-based Data and Light source beamlines.

Research Ecosystem Use Cases (9:09)

{{< youtube "jjyv4RmMIUU" >}}

### Use Case 2-7 Astronomy and Physics Use Cases

This covers Catalina Real-Time Transient Survey (CRTS): a digital,
panoramic, synoptic sky survey; DOE Extreme Data from Cosmological Sky
Survey and Simulations; Large Survey Data for Cosmology; Particle
Physics: Analysis of LHC Large Hadron Collider Data: Discovery of Higgs
particle and Belle II High Energy Physics Experiment.

Astronomy and Physics Use Cases (17:33)

{{< youtube "MPEe8yDVwAo" >}}

### Use Case 2-8 Environment, Earth and Polar Science Use Cases

EISCAT 3D incoherent scatter radar system; ENVRI, Common Operations of
Environmental Research Infrastructure; Radar Data Analysis for CReSIS
Remote Sensing of Ice Sheets; UAVSAR Data Processing, DataProduct
Delivery, and Data Services; NASA LARC/GSFC iRODS Federation Testbed;
MERRA Analytic Services MERRA/AS; Atmospheric Turbulence - Event
Discovery and Predictive Analytics; Climate Studies using the Community
Earth System Model at DOE's NERSC center; DOE-BER Subsurface
Biogeochemistry Scientific Focus Area and DOE-BER AmeriFlux and FLUXNET
Networks.

Environment, Earth and Polar Science Use Cases (25:29)


{{< youtube "YJGk-uvaUCg" >}}

### Use Case 2-9  Energy Use Case

This covers Consumption forecasting in Smart Grids.

Energy Use Case (4:01)

{{< youtube "5y_O-a8_Fbg " >}}

## Introduction to NIST Big Data Public Working Group (NBD-PWG) Features of 51 Big Data Use Cases

This unit discusses the categories used to classify the 51 use-cases.
These categories include concepts used for parallelism and low and high
level computational structure. The first lesson is an introduction to
all categories and the further lessons give details of particular
categories.

[Slides](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1rAYrSaI1gNMNRcoJPy9oGVg5FdSeka5m/view?usp=sharing)

### Use Case 3-1 Summary of Use Case Classification

This discusses concepts used for parallelism and low and high level
computational structure. Parallelism can be over People (users or
subjects), Decision makers; Items such as Images, EMR, Sequences;
observations, contents of online store; Sensors -- Internet of Things;
Events; (Complex) Nodes in a Graph; Simple nodes as in a learning
network; Tweets, Blogs, Documents, Web Pages etc.; Files or data to be
backed up, moved or assigned metadata; Particles/cells/mesh points. Low
level computational types include PP (Pleasingly Parallel); MR
(MapReduce); MRStat; MRIter (iterative MapReduce); Graph; Fusion; MC
(Monte Carlo) and Streaming. High level computational types include
Classification; S/Q (Search and Query); Index; CF (Collaborative
Filtering); ML (Machine Learning); EGO (Large Scale Optimizations); EM
(Expectation maximization); GIS; HPC; Agents. Patterns include Classic
Database; NoSQL; Basic processing of data as in backup or metadata; GIS;
Host of Sensors processed on demand; Pleasingly parallel processing; HPC
assimilated with observational data; Agent-based models; Multi-modal
data fusion or Knowledge Management; Crowd Sourcing.

Summary of Use Case Classification (23:39)

{{< youtube "X0vEmbn1Ld8" >}}


### Use Case 3-2 Database(SQL) Use Case Classification

This discusses classic (SQL) database approach to data handling with
Search&Query and Index features. Comparisons are made to NoSQL
approaches.

Database (SQL) Use Case Classification (11:13)

{{< youtube "jIVdQID11Q4" >}}

### Use Case 3-3 NoSQL Use Case Classification

This discusses NoSQL (compared in previous lesson) with HDFS, Hadoop and
Hbase. The Apache Big data stack is introduced and further details of
comparison with SQL.

NoSQL Use Case Classification (11:20)

{{< youtube "uGL8cFPrhoE" >}}

### Use Case 3-4 Other Use Case Classifications

This discusses a subset of use case features: GIS, Sensors. the support
of data analysis and fusion by streaming data between filters.

Use Case Classifications I (12:42)

{{< youtube "79IwNCNjVWU" >}}

### Use Case 3-5 

This discusses a subset of use case features: Classification, Monte
Carlo, Streaming, PP, MR, MRStat, MRIter and HPC(MPI), global and local
analytics (machine learning), parallel computing, Expectation
Maximization, graphs and Collaborative Filtering.

Case Classifications II (20:18)

{{< youtube "b-olNbWCJyg" >}}

### Use Case 3-6

This discusses the classification, PP, Fusion, EGO, HPC, GIS, Agent, MC, PP, MR, Expectation maximization and benchmarks. 

{{< youtube "ewqoFGxyQmc" >}}

### Use Case 3-7 Other Benchmark Sets and Classifications
This video looks at several efforts to divide applications into categories of related applications It includes “Computational Giants” from the National Research Council; Linpack or HPL from the HPC community;  the NAS Parallel benchmarks from NASA; and finally the Berkeley Dwarfs from UCB. The second part of this video describes efforts in the Digital Science Center to develop Big Data classification and to unify Big Data and simulation categories. This leads to the Ogre and Convergence Diamonds. Diamonds have facets representing the different aspects by which we classify applications. See http://hpc-abds.org/kaleidoscope/ 

{{< youtube "H-PZkJOeX0U" >}}

## Overview of NIST Big Data Public Working Group (NBD-PWG) The 10 Use Case Patterns

[Slides](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Rs2h7JTaTbqkZluigD7Wk_22kiaKuZ9s/view?usp=sharing)


In this last slide deck of the use cases unit, we will be focusing on 10 Use case patterns. This includes multi-user querying, real-time analytics, batch analytics, data movement from external data sources, interactive analysis, data visualization, ETL, data mining and orchestration of sequential and parallel data transformations. We go through the different ways the user and system interact in each case. The use case patterns are divided into 3 classes 1) initial examples 2) science data use case patterns and 3) remaining use case patterns.

{{< youtube "A3rucn5mcVU" >}}

